# Urine-patches-detection
This project is dedecated to make the code used for the data of this article : Identifying Urine Patches on Intensively Managed Grassland Using Aerial Imagery Captured From Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fsufs.2018.00010/full available to everyone.

Juliette Maire led the project as part of her PhD to investigate the possibility and efficiency of detecting urine patches from images captured using Remotely Piloted Aircraft System. A urine patche is a visual delemitation between the grass which repsonded to an input of urine and the rest of the field. The urine patch includes two element: 1) the wetted area where the urine was applied 2) the effective area which combine the wetted area and where the grass have had acces to the urinary nitrogen through their root or where the nitrogen diffused through the soil pores. The grass inside the effective area of a patches is greener, darker and higher. The areas can be detected using RGB and NIR cameras mounted on a RPAS. In this project, RPAS and R image analysis have proven to be effective when carrying out high-resolution, non-destructive, near real-time, and low-cost assessment of the size and distribution of urine patches from aerial surveys. Using low-cost RPAS, onboard cameras and an open source software, this method offers new perspectives for nutrient management, precision agriculture, and greenhouse gas emissions estimation in grassland systems.

Funded by the Walsh fellowship program by Teagasc, Ireland, the BBSRC–Newton project UK-China Virtual Joint Centre for Improved Nitrogen Agronomy (CINAG) and UK-SCAPE.
